**D1: Project Inception**

Group 7 - Project Sekhmet

Date and Location for start of Inception: February 3, 2021 6:00PM,
Engineering Commons

Present: Carson Pociask, Ricardo McCrary, Kyle Mo,

John Gomez, Kalia Iglesias, Jake Stuck

Missing: None

**1. Introduction: Describe in one paragraph what your project is about.
Make it clear what problem your software is solving.**

We have decided to pursue the development of a health app that will be
made available on mobile devices. This app will be supported by an
online informational page about our team and provide further details on
why we decided to take on this project. Through the app, users will be
able to track their calorie intake for the day, retrieve basic
nutritional information of what they ate, receive diet recommendations,
view various exercises that are sorted by category (i.e. muscle group),
as well as view pictures or descriptions about how to do the exercise.
All of these tasks will be implemented for the user based on information
they provide at the beginning of their experience. This app does not
have a specific target audience, but the overall goal is to encourage
and motivate an active lifestyle among app users that may find it hard
to keep their health related habits consistent. We intend to motivate
users to keep coming back to the app by also involving them in some sort
of RPG concept that ties their activities into a game for progression.

**2. Initial value proposition and consumer segments: Report the initial
guesses for these items.**

[Value Proposition:]{.ul} Stay on top of health related habits via the
involvement of an app game to achieve your health goals

[Consumer Segments:]{.ul}

1.  Demographics: Age, gender, occupation, etc.

> We believe that our age grouping would be more towards youth to
> graduate students of any gender. For occupation we believe that
> students, personal trainers and gym owners would use it most. We also
> hope to use this app to inspire people who don't follow an active
> lifestyle to move more and eat better.

2.  Psychographics: Interests, motivations, activities, lifestyle etc.

> We believe that the lifestyle this app would target would be more of
> those that are sedentary or minimal exercise lifestyle. From this we
> hope that the app would produce better lifestyles and motivate people
> to keep in shape and stay healthy.

3.  Behavioural: Benefits sought, usage rate, etc.

> We believe that our usage rate would be a moderate amount with
> hopefully a few hundred users when the app launches. We hope that it
> will increase in usage as time progresses. The benefits we believe
> will be sought from the app are the idea of living a healthier
> lifestyle as well as continual exercise after usage of the app. We see
> our app being used on a daily basis for the users to be able to keep
> their healthy habits going.

4.  Geographic: Cities, urban/rural, countries etc.

> We think that it can be used anywhere from rural communities to
> metropolitan areas. Along with this we think that nations in Asia such
> as Japan and Korea would find an app like this appealing as well as
> here in the United States.

**3. Interviews Summary: Present the results of each interview (the
minimum number of interviews is 1.5 \* number of participants in the
group).**

For each interview, please report:

• Who was interviewed and who participated in the interview

• When • Consumer segment

• Key insights

• Representative quotes

• Assessment: Must have / Nice to have / Don't care

**[Interview 1:]{.ul}**

Michael Burns was interviewed on January 30th 2021 about the health app
our team will be developing. With him being self motivated with exercise
he did note it would not be for him, but he did note that personal
trainers could use it to help track the progress of their customers.
Along with that he noted with the game portion, it would get more people
out of the house potentially as well as keep those who find it hard to
stay motivated going. He stated that it would be [nice to have an app
like that]{.ul} for exercise. He noted that adding gps could be good as
well as a reminder system for if they haven\'t used the app in a few
days. He noted that it had good potential use for gyms and personal
trainers as well as school teams and their coaching staff. He also
recommended a random exercise a day feature where when active will
randomly pull an exercise up and you would have to do it.

**[Interview 2:]{.ul}**

Robert Seykora, a student here at NAU, was interviewed on February 3rd,
2021. First off, Robert says that he would be a daily user of our app
through iOS. He said that he would use the app mainly for keeping
motivated to stay fit and improve himself physically, something he sees
as a key point for all health apps. He would also use the app for
maintaining muscle and improving heart health. Some features he likes
about the app are the calorie tracker and exercise recommendations. He
sees the tracker idea as something that would keep him coming back to
the app on a daily basis and is a must have. Something he doesn't care
to see at all in the app is the idea of sharing information/progress
with other people across networks. The idea of too many jumping off
questions turned Robert away from the app completely. The idea of
including information and recommendations regarding the importance of
nutrients and vitamins in our proposed diet recommendations is something
that Robert would like to see implemented in the app and would be nice
to have. Lastly, Robert thinks that the app should be free to download
and sign up for but is ok with paying a little bit of money for extra
features.

**[Interview 3:]{.ul}**

Alex Iglesias was interviewed on January 31, 2021. Alex is familiar with
other health apps and was interested in several aspects of our app.
Given his prior experience with health apps, he had some important
questions that related to the long term implementation of it. For
example, he questioned whether customer support would be provided and
proceeded to note that he had been dissatisfied with health apps in the
past due to their lack of customer service and upkeep with
inconsistencies within the app. A key recommendation that Alex had
offered was the ability to take pictures of food products to track their
calorie details for each meal, rather than the user having to manually
input nutritional information. Another question that the interviewee had
was how the point system would work in terms of having a motivational
game aspect to be used with the health tracking app. Although we do not
currently have an answer to this question, this is a good point to
consider if we make it to developing the gaming portion.

**[Interview 4:]{.ul}**

John Campo was interviewed on February 8th, 2021. John has experience
with health apps and is currently using one. The app he is using is free
to download but has implemented ads. For an ad-free experience, recipes,
meal plans, and personalized goals, John would have to pay \$80 annually
or \$20 monthly. John's main reasons for using his app is to strive for
weight loss and track his calorie intake and overall nutrition
information of what he eats on a daily basis to be able to get to his
weight goal. A problem John has with his current app is that he is not
able to go back in time to view past week's or month's information
without submitting a request to the company. A key feature he loves
about his current app is being able to create a daily diary for all his
meals and snacks so he can see his intake in a centralized place which
lets him see what he is doing right and wrong for his goal. For any
health app, John sees the ability to track calorie intake as a must
have. A side feature he would appreciate in a health app is the ability
to track water intake, a feature he does not currently have. John
mentioned that he doesn't use the social aspect of his current app and
doesn't see the need for it for a health app in general. He loved the
idea of a game implemented into a health app and sees it as something
that would keep him coming back. He mentioned that if he is going to be
constantly on the phone for something he finds intriguing, why not have
that certain thing produce real-world positive results. Lastly, some key
insights John had after hearing about our app idea were that
notifications for daily exercises are a good idea and that the game
aspect and notifications would keep his motivation up for achieving his
health goals.

**[Interview 5:]{.ul}**

Kevin Schust was interviewed on February 8th, 2021. Kevin has experience
with weight loss apps and calorie counting apps and is using one now.
Kevin pays \$40 annually for his app with an ad-free experience. Kevin's
motivation for using any health app is to lose weight and sees them as a
good thing to report to on a daily basis for his own progress. A current
problem he has with his app is that some entries he makes aren't 100%
accurate calorie wise which leads to cutting corners of his journey and
a slight misrepresentation of his progress. A must have for Kevin is the
ability to track his overall progress with the help of daily exercise
and food input. Kevin mentioned that he likes his information to be
displayed in graphical format as they are easier to break down which in
turn leads to his motivation staying strong. Something he said that
would be nice to have is the ability to track trends of what is and
isn't working for his weight loss journey. This way he can make
adjustments with the help of the app and not focus on something that
isn't benefiting him. With his current app, Kevin makes no use of the
social media programs they offer and views them as pointless for a
health app as his progress is for him, not others. Some key insights he
had were that the game concept is a great idea but he can see himself
getting bored of the same character and/or task. Lastly, a key insight
Kevin had for our game aspect is that he would like to be able to
customize his character/journey and would expect to see a bevy of
different scenarios implemented to keep him excited to check the app on
a daily basis.

**[Interview 6:]{.ul}**

David Droge was interviewed on February 9th, 2021. He has noted that he
has used fitness apps before some similar ideas to what we plan on
creating. He noted that maybe add a system to the game that does
something like double xp weekend for these exercises. He would also like
to see a system in the game where if you do a certain amount of these
exercises you would be awarded with a magic skill or item to use in
game, also maybe a trial system for users. Along with this save
system/bookmark system for recipes or exercises. One thing he wouldn\'t
want to see is intrusive ads such as ads popping up every couple of
minutes. He notes that depending on how well it keeps track of your
progress he would use it in tandem with other apps. So he believes it
would be a nice to have. He believes that it would be popular among 16
to 30 year old individuals.

**[Interview 7:]{.ul}**

Briend Garcia was interviewed on February 11th 2021. I asked him whether
he'd prefer a cloud service to store data, or a traditional account
log-in and He stated that he would prefer the account log-in method.
Depending upon his exercise routine He stated that He works out 6 days a
week on a good week, and 2-3 times a week on a bad week. I asked about
the genre of the game features and whether or not He would prefer a
classic D&D style artstyle for the enemies or anime and his response was
that he felt that D&D would be more applicable to more people and that
anime is more of a niche. I also asked him about mechanics. I asked
whether He would prefer just combat and he provided the idea for a
dungeon crawler where there is an additional status bar or maze that you
traverse through by doing exercises and fighting lesser creatures. I
also asked him about the idea surrounding a social competitive feature
and He did not like that idea. He did however provide a suggestion,
instead of competition He brought up the idea of a group mega boss
battle. The last suggestion He provided was the idea of a progress
tracker for smartwatches. At the end of the interview I asked him how
much He would be willing to pay for it and or whether he would prefer
this to ad based. He suggested that there should be a lite version
supported by ads and a premium version that He would be willing to pay
for. The last question I asked was the assessment and He answered that
it would be nice to have.

**[Interview 8:]{.ul}**

[[Madison Bonfigt]{.ul}](mailto:mlb749@nau.edu)was interviewed on
February 12, 2021. Madi has past experience using a fitness app that was
in the form of a calorie tracker. Madi had decided to use a fitness app
in the past to help her when she felt like "she needed to make changes
to her diet" and needed a way to keep track of it easily. Madi described
that despite her interest in using mobile apps of this nature, she found
herself deterred by apps that "were too busy" or not easily navigable.
In addition to the user interface, Madi mentioned that she would also
just forget to use the app. Upon asking her if she thought an app that
was capable of motivating the user's further, via a gaming experience,
it would be "super cool" and that she would give it a try. I asked what
characteristics would make a calorie tracking/ fitness app more
desirable and Madi reiterated that she would like an easy to use
interface. A straightforward design will help to keep her attention and
that some sort of reminders would be helpful to encourage her to login
to the app.

**[Interview 9:]{.ul}**

David Gomez was interviewed on February 10th, 2021. David has never used
a fitness app before as he never had a need for it in the past. As of
now, he has stopped exercising as college made it hard for him to play
sports (mainly soccer) with his friends and he rarely did fitness
exercises such as lifting weights or running on treadmill. Because he
has not exercised for a while, he wishes to try exercising. After
introducing our app idea, he suggested that besides exercising and
eating healthy, the app should include adding a timer or stopwatch to
manage habits other than eating or exercising such as sleeping, gaming,
sitting, homework and etc. David also said it would be funny if the
monsters are creatures that make your life habits suffer, like a
procrastination monster or a hypnotist that makes you sleep all day.

**4. Final value proposition and consumer segments:**

[Final Value Proposition:]{.ul} Project Sekhmet promotes healthy habits
among young adults through the use of an interactive gaming experience
that tracks progress to motivate the user on a daily basis.

[Final Consumer Segments:]{.ul}

1.  Demographics: Age, gender, occupation, etc.

> Our app is geared towards people of younger age of any gender who have
> experience with technology, specifically mobile apps. We also believe
> our users will have a general interest in gaming. We see our app being
> best suited for anyone with a busy lifestyle that finds it hard to
> keep up with health related habits. With that being said, we see
> college and graduate students using and benefiting most from our app.

2.  Psychographics: Interests, motivations, activities, lifestyle etc.

> We are targeting this app towards people who aren't exactly motivated
> to exercise on a regular basis. An interest in gaming is a plus for
> user motivation. In general, people who wish to live a more active
> lifestyle is the target audience for this app.

3.  Behavioural: Benefits sought, usage rate, etc.

> Our app is intended to be used on a daily basis in order for users to
> keep up with and achieve their goals. Some benefits our app intends to
> provide include weight loss, muscle gain, healthy eating, and overall
> active movement.

4.  Geographic: Cities, urban/rural, countries etc.

> We see our app being used anywhere since some of the intended values
> we provide can be accomplished at home and outside in general. Our app
> would thrive most in larger, more condensed cities where there are
> more people to interact with through the app as well as stores to
> access a wider range of foods.
